# 4BUFFER

[[img|modules/images/4BUFFER.png|100]]

[[https://www.tangiblewaves.com/store/p95/4BUFFER.html | View Product Page]]

Many AE modules have **Mult** sockets where you can combine or split signals. This isn't always reliable in terms of what the end result is, especially if you are wanting the output CV for pitch control. This is where the 4Buffer Module comes in.

You can buffer separately up to 4 different signals or make a signal up to 8 separate outs. It can also do 2 separate input  pairs (i.e.  2 to 1).

This module isn't a mixer so if you want to combine signals you need to look at the 4ATTMIX and Polamix modules.
* [[polamix.md | POLAMIX]]
* [[4attmix.md | 4ATTMIX]]
* [[4attmix-fader.md | 4ATTMIXFADER]]

Module power consumption: 1 mA

## Inputs

* **IN1** - input for channel 1.
* **IN2** - input for channel 2.
* **IN3** - input for channel 3.
* **IN4** - input for channel 4.

## Outputs

* **OUT1** (x2) - output of channel one.
* **OUT2** (x2) - output of channel two.
* **OUT3** (x2) - output of channel three.
* **OUT4** (x2) - output of channel four.

On left (usually input) side

* **B.Crtl** - the CV generated  on Midi CC20, usually a mod wheel on a connected Midi keyboard via the Master module .
* **B.CV** - the CV generated by a key being pressed on a Midi keyboard attached to the master module.

## Controls

* **Link 1-2** - This switch routes input 1 to outputs 1 and 2.
* **Link  2-3** - This switch routes input 2 to outputs 2 and 3. If the Link 1-2 switch is also on then the input 1 goes to outputs 1, 2 and 3.
* **Link  3-4** - This switch routes input 3 to outputs 3 and 4. If Link 2-3 switch is also on, then input 2 goes to outputs 2,3 and 4. If Link 1-2 is on as well as Link 2-3 then the input 1 goes to all outputs.

## Patch Suggestions

The most obvious use to to provide CVs to multiple oscillators from a connected Midi keyboard, but applies for anytime you want the same pitch CV to go to more than one [[2oscd.md|oscillator]], (it can be good for that CV to go to a LFO module as well).

If you want to manually choose between two signals (CV or audio, whatever) you have also this option:
SIGNAL1 ---> 4BUFFER_in1 ---> 4BUFFER_out2; SIGNAL2 ---> 4BUFFER_in2 ---> 4BUFFER_out2. Now you can manually choose by using the tiny switch named "LINK1>2". Same with 3 and 4 inputs: SIGNAL3 ---> 4BUFFER_in3 ---> 4BUFFER_out4; SIGNAL3 ---> 4BUFFER_in4 ---> 4BUFFER_out4 .

This module combines with other CV manipulation modules, e.g. [[2cvtool.md|2CVTOOL]] and [[slew-edge.md|SLEW/EDGE]].

